.. _howto_update_upgrade-anbox:

===================
Upgrade Anbox Cloud
===================

.. note::
   If you’re interested in getting
   notified for the latest Anbox Cloud releases, make sure you subscribe to
   notifications on the `announcements category <https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/anbox-cloud/announcements/55>`_
   on the Anbox Cloud discourse.

Anbox Cloud allows upgrades from older versions to newer version. This
describes the steps necessary to perform the upgrade.

The upgrade instructions detail the revisions each charm needs to be
upgraded to, to bring it to the latest version. Next to the upgrade of
the charms any used images or addons need to be updated as well.

.. warning::
   Before you perform the upgrade
   ensure that you perform a backup of critical data you don’t want to
   lose.

Upgrade OS
==========

Before you run the upgrade of the charms, you should make sure all
packages on the machines that are part of the deployment are up-to-date.
To do so, run the following commands on each machine:

::

   $ sudo apt update
   $ sudo apt upgrade

.. _howto_update_upgrade-anbox-juju-version:

Check Juju version
==================

Up until release 1.11, Anbox Cloud requires Juju 2.8. If your deployment
doesn’t yet use Juju 2.8 you have to upgrade your controller and all
models first. See the `Juju documentation <https://juju.is/docs/upgrading-models>`__ for more
details on how to upgrade the Juju controller and all models to Juju
2.8.

As of 1.12, Juju 2.9 is supported. You can install Juju 2.9 with

::

   $ snap install --channel=2.9/stable juju

or switch to the 2.9 series with

::

   $ snap refresh --channel=2.9/stable juju

Upgrade all charms
==================

The deployed Juju charms need to be upgraded next. Please execute the
following commands in the exact same order as listed here but skip those
you don’t use in your deployment:

.. note::
   You can find a list of all charm,
   snap and Debian package versions for each Anbox Cloud relase in the
   :ref:`component-versions`
   overview. This also includes the charm and bundle revisions for each
   release you want to replace ``<rev>`` in the commands below with.

.. code:: bash

   $ juju upgrade-charm easyrsa --revision=<rev>
   $ juju upgrade-charm etcd --revision<rev>
   $ juju upgrade-charm lxd --revision=<rev>
   $ juju upgrade-charm ams --revision=<rev>
   $ juju upgrade-charm ams-node-controller --revision=<rev>
   $ juju upgrade-charm aar --revision=<rev>

If you have the streaming stack deployed you have to upgrade also the
following charms:

.. code:: bash

   $ juju upgrade-charm anbox-stream-gateway --revision=<rev>
   $ juju upgrade-charm anbox-stream-agent --revision=<rev>
   $ juju upgrade-charm coturn --revision=<rev>
   $ juju upgrade-charm nats --revision=<rev>

Once the commands are executed, Juju will perform all necessary upgrade
steps automatically.

After Juju has settled the workload status will be marked as ``blocked``
and the status will show ``UA token missing``.

Since the 1.7.0 release of Anbox Cloud a valid Ubuntu Advantage token
including the Anbox Cloud entitlement is mandatory. Generally you can
get your Ubuntu Advantage token on `Ubuntu Advantage <https://ubuntu.com/advantage>`_ but your account has to
specifically whitelisted to be entitled for Anbox Cloud. If your account
has not yet whitelisted or you’re unsure, please speak with your
Canonical account representative.

When you have your Ubuntu Advantage token you can apply it for all
relevant charms with the following commands:

.. code:: bash

   $ juju config ams ua_token=<your token>
   $ juju config lxd ua_token=<your token>
   $ juju config ams-node-controller ua_token=<your token>
   $ juju config aar ua_token=<your token>
   $ juju config anbox-stream-gateway ua_token=<your token>
   $ juju config anbox-stream-agent ua_token=<your token>
   $ juju config anbox-cloud-dashboard ua_token=<your token>

When the token is set Juju will continue to upgrade Anbox Cloud and
install the latest version of the software components.

Upgrade Debian packages
=======================

Some parts of Anbox Cloud are distributed as Debian packages coming from
the `Anbox Cloud Archive <https://archive.anbox-cloud.io>`_. In order
to apply all pending upgrades, run the following commands on your
machines:

.. code:: bash

   $ sudo apt update
   $ sudo apt upgrade

or apply the updates via
`Landscape <https://landscape.canonical.com/>`_ if available.

Upgrade LXD image
=================

LXD images are automatically being fetched by AMS from the image server
once they are published.

Existing applications will be automatically updated by AMS as soon as
the new image is uploaded. Watch out for new versions being added for
any of the existing applications based on the new image version.

You can check for the status of an existing application by running

.. code:: bash

   $ amc application show <application id or name>

Image server access
===================

Starting with Anbox Cloud 1.9.0 you do not need to manually configure
the ``images.auth`` configuration option in AMS anymore with your
personal username and password. Authentication to the image server is
now fully automated via your Ubuntu Advantage subscription.

Existing deployments will be automatically migrated to the new image
server endpoint ``https://images.anbox-cloud.io/stable/`` and
authentication based on your Ubuntu Advantage subscription will be setup
during the AMS charm upgrade process as well. All you need to have
configured for this is the Ubuntu Advantage token on the AMS charm you
set during deploying with the deploying command:

.. code:: bash

   $ juju config ams ua_token=<your token>

To verify the migration you can validate that the ``images.url``
configuration option in AMS is now changed to
``https://images.anbox-cloud.io/stable/`` and the 1.10 images are
successfully downloaded.
