.. _howto_application_update:

=====================
Update an application
=====================

Updating an existing application works similar to creating a new one.
Each time an existing application is updated, it is extended with a new
version. All versions that an application currently has are individually
usable, but only one can be available to users.

When you want to update an existing application with a new manifest or
APK, provide both in the same format as when the application was
created. The ``amc application update`` command accepts both a directory
and an absolute file path.

From a path:

::

   amc application update bcmap7u5nof07arqa2ag $PWD/foo

From a file:

::

   amc application update bcmap7u5nof07arqa2ag foo.tar.bz2

AMS will start the update process internally. You can watch the status
of the new version with the following command:

::

   amc application show bcmap7u5nof07arqa2ag

The output shows detailed information about the application and all of
its versions:

.. code:: bash

   id: bcmap7u5nof07arqa2ag
   name: candy
   status: ready
   published: false
   config:
     instance-type: a2.3
     boot-package: com.canonical.candy
   versions:
     0:
       image: bf7u4cqkv5sg5jd5b2k0 (version 0)
       published: false
       status: active
       addons:
       - ssh
       boot-activity: com.canonical.candy.GameApp
       required-permissions:
       - android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE
       - android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE
       extra-data:
         com.canonical.candy.obb:
           target: /data/app/com.canonical.candy-1/lib
         game-data-folder:
           target: /sdcard/Android/data/com.canonical.candy/
       watchdog:
         disabled: false
         allowed-packages:
         - com.android.settings
       services:
       - port: 5559
         protocols:
         - tcp
         expose: false
         name: adb
     1:
       image: bf7u4cqkv5sg5jd5b2k0 (version 0)
       published: false
       status: active
       addons:
       - ssh
       boot-activity: com.canonical.candy.GameApp
       required-permissions:
       - android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE
       - android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE
       extra-data:
         com.canonical.candy.obb:
           target: /data/app/com.canonical.candy-1/lib
       watchdog:
         disabled: false
         allowed-packages:
         - com.android.settings
       services:
       - port: 5559
         protocols:
         - tcp
         expose: false
         name: adb
   resources:
     memory: 4GB
     disk-size: 8GB

Each version gets a monotonically increasing number assigned (here we
have version ``0`` and version ``1``). In addition, each version has a
status which indicates the status of the bootstrap process AMS is
performing for it. Once an application version is marked as ``active``,
it is ready to be used.

Publish application versions
============================

The most important part of an application version is the ``published``
field. If a version is marked as published, it is accessible to users of
Anbox Cloud. Generally when launching containers by using the AMS REST
API, if no specific application version is given, the last published
version of an application is used to create the container.

If
:ref:`application.auto_publish <ref_ams-configuration>`
is set to ``true`` (the default), new versions are automatically
published. Otherwise, you need to publish them manually.

You can mark an application version as published with the following
command:

::

   amc application publish bcmap7u5nof07arqa2ag 1

To revoke an application version, use the following command:

::

   amc application revoke bcmap7u5nof07arqa2ag 1

If an application has only a single published version and that version
is revoked, the application canâ€™t be used by any users anymore. AMS will
still list the application but will mark it as not published as it has
no published versions.

Delete application versions
===========================

Each version takes up space on the LXD nodes. To free up space and
remove old and unneeded versions, you can individually remove them, with
the only requirement that an application must have at least a single
version at all times. Removing a specific application version is
possible with the following command:

::

   amc application delete --version=1 bcmap7u5nof07arqa2ag

The command will ask for your approval before the version is removed as
it might affect your users. If you want to bypass the check, you can add
the ``--yes`` flag to the command.

Disable automatic application updates
=====================================

*since 1.11.0*

AMS automatically updates an application whenever any of its
dependencies (parent image, addons, global configuration) changes. This
produces a new version for the application, which is automatically
published if the ``application.auto_publish`` configuration item is
enabled.

In some cases, an automatic update is not wanted. To support this, AMS
allows disabling automatic application updates via the
``application.auto_update`` configuration update.

To disable automatic updates:

::

   amc config set application.auto_update false

To enable automatic updates:

::

   amc config set application.auto_update true

When automatic updates are disabled, applications must be manually
updated for any changed dependencies. To do this, use the following
command:

::

   amc application update <application id or name>

This will initiate the update process and create a new application
version.

Change image an application is based on
=======================================

The image an application is based on can be changed with the following
command:

::

   amc application set com.canonical.candy image <image name or id>

Changing the image will cause AMS to generate a new version for the
application. Previous versions will continue using the image the
application used before.
