## Introduction

The Anbox Cloud team is pleased to announce the release of Anbox Cloud 1.12.0.

Please see [component versions](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/component-versions) for a list of updated components.

## New features & improvements

### Android 12

Google [has released the final version Android 12 on October 4](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2021/10/android-12-is-live-in-aosp.html) to the Android Open Source Project, and it's now shipping as part of Anbox Cloud 1.12.

Anbox Cloud supports the same features across all supported Android versions, so everything you have used so far on other Android versions in Anbox Cloud is available on Android 12 too.

### Improved density for NVIDIA GPUs

On supported NVIDIA GPUs (Tesla T4), Anbox Cloud can now deliver higher density. On the NVIDIA Tesla T4, Anbox Cloud can now provide up to 30 containers all rendering and streaming at 720p 30 FPS.

### WiFi support

WiFi support was improved and is now more stable. With 1.12, WiFi is still disabled by default but can be enabled with the `enable_wifi` feature flag. In 1.13, WiFi will be enabled by default for all containers.

### Rebooting Android is now possible

So far, rebooting the Android running in the Anbox container was not allowed. With 1.12, it is now possible to allow Android to reboot. During the reboot, the Anbox runtime stays alive and continues to be functional (for example, a connected WebRTC stream stays active).

Reboots are still disallowed by default for Android and must be specifically enabled with the `allow_android_reboot` feature flag.

### Additional life-cycle hooks

Life-cycle hooks inside the Anbox container were extended to provide a more unified list of hooks that are identical between different container types (base, regular). See the [reference](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/addons/25293) for an overview of the new hooks.

### Port ranges support in AMS

AMS now supports applications declaring a port range in their manifest. This allows to open a bigger set of ports per container at once instead of having to declare each port individually.

### Container tags

Containers can now be tagged on launch. The tags are just for informational purposes:

    amc launch --tags foo=bar,bar ...

## Known issues

* The Android 12 image currently comes without a functioning WebView. The WebView will become functional with the 1.12.1 release.

## Bug fixes

* AC-467 AMS fails to import image with multiple instances
* AC-174 LP #1927233 `anbox-stream-gateway-lb` has no open ports when deployed via Juju 2.9
* AC-293 Anbox leaks after `CtsGraphicsTestCases` has finished
* AC-294 WebRTC platform crashes on `glDeleteTextures`
* AC-446 Container fails to start: This operation can't be cancelled
* AC-453 Dashboard charm fails to deploy
* AC-466 AMC application set fails with `argument cpu is invalid`
* AC-501 A kernel crash occurred in `virt_wifi` kernel module
* AC-502 Grafana fails in dashboard-relation-joined
* AC-504 LXD nodes fail to be added if relation hook is run before AMS is configured
* LP #1922918 LXD charm crashes with TypeError in `count_lxd_nodes_in_cluster`
* LP #1926118 Using invalid UA token causes hook error instead of proper error

## Upgrade instructions

See [Upgrade Anbox Cloud](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/howto/update/upgrade-anbox) or [Upgrade the Anbox Cloud Appliance](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/howto/update/upgrade-appliance) for instructions on how to update your Anbox Cloud deployment to the 1.12 release.
