## Introduction

The Anbox Cloud team is pleased to announce the release of Anbox Cloud 1.18.2.

Please see [component versions](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/component-versions) for a list of updated components.

## New features & improvements
* Android security updates for July 2023. See [Android Security Bulletin - July 2023](https://source.android.com/docs/security/bulletin/2023-07-01) for more information.
* The Android WebView has been updated to [tba](tba).

## Bug fixes
* When upgrading Anbox Cloud, the `Reboot required to activate new kernel or GPU drivers` message when running `juju status` does not clear even after rebooting and clearing the notification. <!--AC-1622-->
* `Honkai:Star Rail` game had alpha blending issues and displayed a pink rectangle during game play. <!--AC-1628-->
* `Invalid argument` error occurs when configuring kernel parameters during the LXD charm upgrade. <!--AC-1645-->
* Accessibility service crashes on Android 13 for Anbox Cloud. <!--AC-1657-->
* Cannot set a node as unschedulable using the `unschedulable` parameter when updating a node via PATH method to endpoint(1.0/nodes). <!--AC-1689-->
* Anbox Application Registry (AAR) loses metadata on upgrade. <!--AC-1691-->
* The LXD storage pool size is not evaluated during the initialisation of Anbox Cloud Appliance. <!--AC-1698-->
* Applications requiring camera and microphone do not work in Anbox Cloud version 1.18.0 or later because of a change to the wire protocol between the WebRTC client and server. <!--AC-1710-->
* In the [Anbox Stream Gateway Charm](https://charmhub.io/anbox-stream-gateway), TLS pinning is not enabled even after the `use_tls_pinning` configuration is set to `true`. <!--AC-1683-->
* The Grafana dashboard displays incorrect metrics for streaming stack. <!--AC-1685-->


## Upgrade instructions

See [Upgrade Anbox Cloud](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/howto/update/upgrade-anbox) or [Upgrade the Anbox Cloud Appliance](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/howto/update/upgrade-appliance) for instructions on how to update your Anbox Cloud deployment to the < release-version > release.
