## Introduction

The Anbox Cloud team is pleased to announce the release of Anbox Cloud 1.19.2.

Please see [component versions](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/ref/component-versions) for a list of updated components.

## New features & improvements

* When the Anbox Cloud Appliance upgrade fails, you can force run the upgrade again by using the `--force` option when running `anbox-cloud-appliance upgrade`.
* Android security updates for October 2023 (see [Android Security Bulletin - October 2023](https://source.android.com/docs/security/bulletin/2023-10-01) for more information).
* The Android WebView has been updated to 117.0.5938.61.

## Bugs fixed
* Screen rotation fails to work and causes an `Unknown orientation type` error. <!--AC-1864-->
* The existing telegraf configuration that collects metrics for the running containers does not work for cgroup-v2. <!--AC-1919-->
* Anbox Cloud Appliance fails to initialise with the following error on systems that have EFI but do not support secure boot: <!--AC-1951-->
    `Error: failed to check secure boot status: exit status 255`
* A container is deleted when its start operation fails. <!--AC-1952-->
* After a container is stopped, GPUs and VPUs assigned to it are not cleared. This leads to having multiple GPUs/VPUs assigned to the container without proper allocation or utilisation. <!--AC-1953-->
* When an NVMe-based VPU is assigned to a container, the corresponding control device is not assigned. This could prevent the drivers from using the control device. <!--AC-1955-->
* When the upgrade process for the appliance is in progress, the output of the `gpu-support.sh` is missing from the `upgrade.log`.<!--AC-1956-->


## Upgrade instructions

See [Upgrade Anbox Cloud](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/howto/update/upgrade-anbox) or [Upgrade the Anbox Cloud Appliance](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/howto/update/upgrade-appliance) for instructions on how to update your Anbox Cloud deployment to the 1.19.2 release.
