.. _release-notes-1.2.1:

==================
1.2.1 (April 2019)
==================

.. _bug-fixes-25:

Bug fixes
---------

-  Telegraf was restarted every five minutes which caused metrics from
   Anbox being lost.
-  Android framework crashed in
   `WifiManager.getWifiState() <https://developer.android.com/reference/android/net/wifi/WifiManager.html#getWifiState()>`_

-  Application updates failed due to limited cluster capacity. Base
   containers are now queued up and processed in order as soon as
   capacity is available.
-  AMS was not correctly finishing a container timeout on launch when
   restarted. On restart AMS now resumes the timeout.
-  Base containers are now correctly marked as stopped during the
   bootstrap process when the related LXD container is also stopped.
-  Fixed unhandled timeouts in the LXD API client implementation causing
   API calls to hang forever.
-  Added Android security fixes from April 2019. See the `Android Security Bulletins <https://source.android.com/security/bulletin>`_
   for more information.
-  Installing applications with an architecture not supported by the LXD
   cluster caused the installation process to hang. AMS now checks on
   APK upload if the APK can be executed by the available machines in
   the LXD cluster. The installation process was updated to not hang on
   unsupported APKs.
-  The Android webview crashed in specific scenarios with SIGBUS on
   ARM64. This was caused by unaligned memory access in the OpenGL
   translation layer inside Anbox.
